# CouponsAccepted
The problem addressed in this report is identifying what driving scenarios and characteristics would lead to a higher acceptance rate for coupons that are aimed to entice drivers to visit one of five establishments: Coffee Houses, Bars, Carry Out, Cheap Restuarants, and More Expensive Restaurants.

The data analyzed in ths exercised was a csv file comprised of 26 columns with one column representing a "Yes/No" on whether a driver would accept a coupon. The other columns were various driver demographics (age, gender, occupation), driving scenarios (time of day, passengers), and driver behavioral data (amount of times a driver frequented an establishment).

Initial inspection of the data showed two main problems that needed to be addressed. First, a column "car" lists the type of car a person drives. Only 1.5% of survey respondents provided an answer rendering the column useless for analysis. Second, there were five behavioral columns that allowed respondents to populate how often they frequented one of the five establishments. There were a few missing values for each of the establishemnt types, so empty data was replaced with the "never" indication.

The coupon data first assessed as a whole then broken into subsets to answer more complex questions. The overall acceptance rate of coupons for any establishment was 57%. Bar plots were charted separated by the coupon type (Coffee House, Bars, Carry Out, Cheap Restuarants, and More Expensive Restaurants) and stacked showing the count for accepted and non-accepted coupons. The two coupon types with the highest acceptance rates seemed to be Carry Oout and Cheap Restaurants. Coffee Houses had the highest number of responses. Further analysis conducted on Bars and Coffee Houses as both seemed to have an even split between acceptance.

Bars was the first subset of coupons that were analyzed. With roughly 2,000 responses, 41% of drivers would accept a coupon to a Bar. This subset of Bar coupon data was further broken down to assess what impacted acceptance rate. Drivers that frequented a bar three times or less in a month were compared to those who visited four or more times. Intuition was supported by data showing that individuals who visited a bar 3 times or fewer only accepted a 'Bar' coupon 37% of the time while drivers who had visited a bar 4 or more times had an acceptance rate of 77%. Additional anlaysis included age. Individuals who would visit a bar at least once per month and were over the age of 25 showed a 70% acceptance rate. Passengers and occupations were thrown into the mix. Drivers who frequented a bar at least once a month, had no kids as passengers, and did not work in fishing, farming or forestry had a 62% acceptance rate. Swapping out occupation for marital status showed that individuals who visited a bar at least once per month, did not have kids as passengers, and were not widowed had an acceptance of 62%. Based on the acceptance rates for the varying subsets of the 'Bar' coupon data, it seems that few variables have a significant impact to the accpetance rate. The primary variable that seems to drive the acceptance rate is when drivers visit an establishment.

As the largest, Coffee House coupons were another subset of interest. Logic dictates we want coffee in the morning, likely while alone, possibly on the way to work. Stacked bar plots showed that drivers with no urgent destination had a higher acceptance rate that those bound for home or work. Plots for the time of day or passengers types revealed no glaring insights. Another plot was generated for acceptance rates by occupation. Surprisingly, unemployed drivers had about an even split. Further analysis showed that unemployed drivers had a higher acceptance rate (54%) for Coffee House coupons than employed drivers (49%). Assessing passengers revealed that individuals driving alone accepted Coffee House coupons 44% of the time while those with passengers had an acceptance rate of 58%. Peer pressure perhaps? The time of day was similarly assessed. Coffee House coupon acceptance rates varied betwen morning hours (54%) and afternoon and later (46%). Finally, a mix of criteria was assess. Drivers who drove in the morning with passengers versus drivers who drove in later hours alone. Their Coffee House acceptance rates were 66% and 36%, respectively. This suggest a compounding effect for the already possitively influencing criteria.
